MetroHealth Medical Center, the county hospital system, is one of the beneficiaries of the Health and Human Services levy. (

By Editorial Board Cuyahoga County's health and human services levies help young children attend high-quality preschool, provide treatment for the mentally ill and the drug-addicted and ensure that last-resort medical care is available to all in the county at MetroHealth Medical Center, among many other services.

This year, Issue 9 , the smaller of the two levies, is on the May 8 ballot. It's an important 3.9-mill two-year renewal that will bring in $104 million annually. The levy, which will not raise taxes, costs the owner of a $100,000 home about $135 a year. This levy does so much that losing it would be "catastrophic," Cuyahoga County Executive Armond Budish told the editorial board Tuesday. Two recent controversies do not reflect overall on the tremendous work the county does in human services. The first is the death of Aniya Day-Garrett , a four-year-old girl who was not removed from her home by county workers, who said they lacked evidence of abuse, a failure that is still under investigation. Aniya's mother and her mother's boyfriend have been charged with aggravated murder in the girl's death. Then there's the ongoing corruption investigation that has named several Cuyahoga County employees, none in the county's social services departments. Issue 9 is vital for our community and deserves county voters' support. Early voting in the May 8 primary begins April 10. About our editorials: Editorials express the view of the editorial board of cleveland.com and The Plain Dealer -- the senior leadership and editorial-writing staff. As is traditional, editorials are unsigned and intended to be seen as the voice of the news organization. Have something to say about this topic? Use the comments to share your thoughts. Then, stay informed when readers reply to your comments by using the "Follow" option at the top of the comments, and look for updates via the small blue bell in the lower right as you look at more stories on cleveland.com. which will be considered for print publication. * Email general questions about our editorial board or comments on this editorial to Elizabeth Sullivan, director of opinion, at esullivan@cleveland.com.