The Kentucky Department of Education is seeing the same 6.25 percent baseline cut as most state agencies, Johnson said, but there are several agencies that will have funding restored from the governor's proposed budget, such as the Kentucky Family Resource and Youth Services Centers.

Legislators have funded Support Education Excellence in Kentucky, known as SEEK, "at the highest level it has ever been," Johnson said.

According to the bill, the base guarantee per student amount paid to districts will be $4,000.

Districts receive SEEK funds per pupil depending on several factors, including the number of students with special needs, the amount of students in poverty and transportation costs. Currently, SEEK is set at $3,981 per student, and a major contention in the governor's proposed budget was a 62 percent cut to the state-mandated transportation fund.

In January, Gov. Bevin said districts would be expected to contribute to transportation costs more than they have in the past. State law requires that school districts provide bus service to any student who lives a mile or more from a school, so the governor's proposed budget plan would result in an unfunded mandate.

HB 200 includes funding school transportation $127.8 million for each year of the budget cycle, which is an almost $100 million reduction from fiscal year 2018 SEEK transportation funds.

Superintendents for Owensboro Public Schools and Daviess County Public Schools say they are pleased with some of the things noted in the bill, but unhappy with others.

DCPS Superintendent Matt Robbins said the increase in SEEK base dollars isn't much when considering inflation. He is glad, however, that it's not a reduction.

"....(SEEK) has been stagnant for three years at the current rate," Robbins said. "Any little bit of inflation at all, I don't know it does a lot to cover that."

OPS Superintendent Nick Brake said he is thankful for the increase, albeit modest, but that the state is a far cry from adequately funding public education.

"I'm pleased that we moved as far away as we could from the governor's budget, which I think was almost barbaric for our state to consider those level of cuts," Brake said.

Both superintendents remarked on the other "holes" in funding that are equally as important, like the fact that HB 200 also doesn't include any funding for textbooks or professional and teacher development.

"Textbooks or instructional resources are critical (tools) used in the classroom every day by students and teachers," Robbins said. "Not pleased to see that (cut)."

Johnson said in the original bill, there was a bit of "robbing Peter to pay Paul" when it came to coal severance dollars. There are some eastern Kentucky counties "that desperately need help," he said and the idea was for some of the money to be transferred to them.

Johnson said legislators "realized that that wasn't exactly what we wanted to have happen," and that much of that coal severance was placed back into counties in the western part of the state.

The bill adds more than $10 million next fiscal year to help 31 school districts that are suffering due to lost revenues from the drop in assessment of unmined coal, what Johnson called a "diminishing fund."

Of that $10 million, HB 200 states Daviess County schools will be given $8,900; McLean County schools will be given $5,900; Muhlenberg County schools will be given $129,800; and Ohio County schools will be given $128,800. Pike County, a district harder hit, is set to receive the most amount of unmined minerals assessment offset with almost $1.6 million.