Guhdar is especially worried about his eldest son, who last year tried to commit suicide. When he heard the news, he told his father: “We’d all be better off dead.” Guhdar, his 46-year-old wife Jihan and their six children arrived in Greece in late 2016, tricked by a smuggler who told them he was sending them to Italy from Turkey. They, like some 10,000 other asylum seekers, are stuck on the Greek islands. They came to Europe’s shores in hope of a life of safety and dignity, but the European Union responded by shutting down its borders. According to the UN, as of January 2018, there were some 1,700 asylum seekers in Samos, more than two-thirds of them from Syria, Iraq, and Afghanistan. Nearly half of them are women and children, and nearly a third have special needs. — Children play ‘refugees and police’ —

Without the right to remain in Greece , Guhdar and his family now face the threat of detention, and even deportation to Turkey — where they, as Kurds, would not feel safe. Asked how he would feel if they had to return to Iraq, Guhdar said: “That would be our worst nightmare.” He and his family fled Iraq after his brother dared to elope with a woman from another tribe that did not approve of their marriage. Unable to exact revenge on the brother, Guhdar faced the fury of the enemy tribe, who ordered him to either pay $10,000 (8,000 euros), or give up his two young daughters in exchange. Failing that, they would murder him. Despite the threat to his life, Guhdar has not been granted refugee status.

For now, he and his family have no choice but to remain in the Samos hotspot — one of a string of centres set up after the peak of the migrant crisis in 2015 to shelter and screen new arrivals. While the hotspots were meant to be temporary, they have with time turned into makeshift camps, housing thousands of asylum seekers crowded into cramped, damp conditions. Guhdar is heartbroken to see his children denied an education, doing little with their time but playing with junk and broken bikes. They play hide and seek — but rather than cops and robbers, their characters are refugees and police. Asylum seekers living in the hotspots are allowed to come and go as they please. But there really isn’t anywhere to go, particularly for people like Guhdar who have been denied asylum and therefore face detention. With Samos’s economy in ruins because of the migrant crisis, few shopkeepers are willing to serve the asylum seekers, whom many blame for the lack of tourists. 

The hotspot is manned by officers in uniform who communicate in an unfeeling, monotone way. It is surrounded by high barbed and razor-wire fences, which the migrants use as makeshift clotheslines to hang up their washing, and kept under surveillance with CCTV cameras. At meal times, a loud buzzer rings throughout the site, followed by an announcement through loudspeakers. The migrants rush to form a line, pushing past each other to get to the front, while police officers break up any brawls that erupt. Abo Arab, a 28-year-old from Damascus who survived detention and torture in Syria’s notorious jails, only to end up stuck in Samos, blames occasional spurts of violence on conditions in the hotspot.

"If you put a group of saints in this camp like this one for a very long time, they will end up fighting and killing each other."

Aliki Meirmaridou, MSF’s psychologist in Samos, agrees. “People come to this island running from wars and violence, and they have their own share of mental health issues. But they develop new mental problems just by staying in the camp,” she says. Taking part or intervening in a fighting is one of the most common reasons for being sent to the local police station – where people due to be expelled to Turkey are also detained, often for more than one months, and sometimes up to three months. There, people are detained in overcrowded cells, with poor access to hygiene, no access to open air, and virtually no access to healthcare – apart from the consultations that MSF has been providing for some months. Half of the detainees whom MSF teams met had never received any legal assistance. — A flicker of hope, then darkness — Every day, conversations in the hotspot repeat themselves. Pretty much all that ever gets discussed is life on the island and the dream of Athens. They believe that once they reach the Greek capital, they will be able to lead normal lives, live in decent homes, and work good jobs, with their children in school. Those longing to be reunited with relatives in countries such as Germany or Sweden, meanwhile, believe that it is only a matter of time before they are given permission to join them.