THIS is the first picture of the hero crack soldier who was killed by a buried bomb while battling ISIS in Syria. The Ministry of Defence (MoD) has named the serviceman who died on Thursday as 33-year-old Sergeant Matt Tonroe from the 3rd Battalion the Parachute Regiment.

The MoD has confirmed Sergeant Matt Tonroe's death and paid tribute to his skill and bravery. The SAS soldier had been embedded with US Special Forces in Manbij near the Turkish border when the booby-trap bomb exploded. A US serviceman, 36-year-old Master Sgt Johnathan J. Dunbar of Austin, Texas, died alongside him and five others were wounded in the blast, American reports claimed. None of the injured were British, sources said. An MoD spokesman said today: "It is with great sadness that the Ministry of Defence must confirm that Sergeant Matt Tonroe from the 3st Battalion the Parachute Regiment was tragically killed in action whilst on duty in the Middle East on the 29th March 2018."

Hero crack soldier killed in Syria by Isis confirmed as Matt Tonroe by the Ministry of Defence.

The dead soldier's Commanding Officer said: “Matt Tonroe was a deeply intelligent man and one of life’s characters. “He was a caring and considerate soul, a loving and dutiful son, and a friend to many. “Yet he had a steel core, served his country with pride and was a first class soldier, proven in combat, faced risk willingly and was ever ready for more. “He thus died as he lived: daring and fearless in duty. “We mourn his loss dearly, are proud to have known him and will honour him by continuing this fight.”

The blast that targeted coalition forces took place close to 'Sheikh Akil graveyard'

The soldier was embedded with US forces in the country battling the Islamic State, file photo. Sgt Tonroe was born in Manchester on August 14 1984. He enlisted in the Army on September 27 2004. On completion of his initial training he joined the 3rd Battalion of The Parachute Regiment in Colchester where he served as part of the Sniper Platoon. He rapidly developed an array of competencies and combat experiences that were to lay the foundations of an outstanding career. The MoD said during his service, Sgt Tonroe deployed numerous times on operations to Afghanistan and the Middle East. He is survived by his mother Michelle, his brother Alex and girlfriend Olivia.