"We want to be held accountable," she said in a recent interview. "We didn't recognise that in this new age of transparency," she added, "what the brand stands for is super important to people." Fast fashion companies, which specialise in low-priced, quickly produced clothing and have grown faster than the apparel industry as a whole for years, are under pressure to be more prolific and provocative as they sell across more borders. H&M, which added 479 stores last year, now has more than 4000 stores in dozens of countries. Inditex, the enormous parent company behind Zara, has more than 7500 stores in 94 countries. Zara outsources a small fraction of its designs – just 2 per cent of the 20,000 designs it produces each year – and all are sent through multiple reviews before being offered for sale. But some of the outsourced designs have proved problematic. When fashion is contracted out, "there's a lot less control, a lot less oversight and involvement from the company along every step of the process", said Felipe Caro, a business professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, who has spent years studying Zara. Last year, critics complained that images of frogs on a Zara skirt resembled a cartoon character called Pepe, which was designated a hate symbol of the alt-right by the Anti-Defamation League. The skirt was designed by an independent Spanish artist, Mario de Santiago, who is based in London. In a statement at the time, he said that the frogs had "no connection at all with anything related to hate, violence or discrimination". Ricardo Cavolo, another artist who designed for the same collection, said in an email that the design process "was pretty fast". He spent two days at Zara's headquarters in Spain, creating paintings on denim that the company then reproduced without making any changes, he said. Supply chain experts recommend more careful, decentralised vetting procedures that send designs through a central checkpoint at headquarters and also past gatekeepers in the country of sale. Soon after shifting into her new role at H&M, Wu said she visited South Africa, where the importance of soliciting local input quickly became clear. "I thought I was very culturally aware," said Wu, who was born in Taiwan, grew up in New York and speaks Mandarin. "I learned so much more just by being in that office." A few months ago, during a long day spent styling and photographing products for H&M's website, no one on the Stockholm set appeared to raise concerns about one more item to process, the hoodie with the offensive message, according to a person familiar with the shoot. Critics said the garment might have been flagged if H&M's team was more diverse. "It's so easy to avoid this kind of controversy," said Angel Sinclair, the founder of the advocacy group Models of Diversity. "If you care about being culturally sensitive, just be more culturally inclusive of talent and managers in the business." H&M has more than 100,000 workers worldwide. But the fashion giant's board is entirely white. And retail experts said that much of the creative process takes place in and around its European home office, far from many of its markets. Fast fashion has produced tone-deaf products for years, passing them off as a rounding error given the enormous volume of items the companies generate each year. But more shoppers have begun calling on retailers to take a stand on social and political issues, such as sexism and gun control. "These incidents are happening in a climate where marginalised communities are feeling more targeted, more under attack, so they're more in tune with these issues," said Melissa Garlick, a lawyer with the Anti-Defamation League. "Fashion companies have a responsibility to the public and to consumers to ensure that they're being sensitive in designing and marketing products – they have to be aware of what lines not to cross." Several companies have pledged to diversify hiring, retool corporate guidelines and initiate other measures to prevent mistakes from going out the door. Zara now uses an algorithm created to scan designs for insensitive or offensive features. In 2016, it hired a committee of diversity officers. Diversity and inclusion training has become mandatory for all new employees. New York Times