By Umberto Profazio, Consulting Research Assistant for the IISS Armed Conflict Database On 12 February, Tunisian Defence Minister Abdelakrim Zbidi told a parliamentary committee his ministry had rejected a NATO grant of €3 million (US$3.7m) for the establishment of a joint command centre in Tunisia. The centre would have served to plan, command and control joint military operations by Tunisia’s armed forces, with a particular focus on border controls and the fight against terrorism. Considering Tunisia’s interest in security cooperation with NATO and the Alliance’s eagerness to support Tunisia’s young and democratic institutions, the revelation came as a surprise. Relations between NATO and Tunisia seemed solid and have improved considerably in recent years. In 2014, 20 years after joining the Mediterranean Dialogue programme, Tunisia entered a NATO individual partnership and cooperation programme focused on priority areas including counter-terrorism and border security, two core concerns of the Tunisian authorities. The following year former prime minister Habib Essid visited NATO headquarters in Brussels, discussing ways to deepen the partnership in areas of mutual interests including military education and training. Essid’s 2015 visit came amid a wave of terrorist attacks in Tunisia, which forced President Beji Caid Essebsi to declare the state of emergency still in force three years later. Since the Ben Guerdane attack in March 2016, security forces seemed to have gained the upper hand over jihadist groups, preventing infiltration attempts from neighbouring Libya and containing the terrorist insurgency in Mount Chaambi, Kasserine governorate. However, the country’s officials believe there are close to 3,000 Tunisian fighters in foreign war zones such as Iraq, Libya and Syria. Their eventual return home following the territorial collapse of the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, will pose serious challenges to the country’s stability. Given Tunisia’s exceptional security challenges and the volatile regional context, the rejection of NATO’s offer raises questions about Tunisia’s willingness to enhance its partnership with the Alliance. Tunisian authorities seemed motivated by the need to preserve national sovereignty in security matters: during his committee appearance, Zbidi said NATO had demanded its staff have access to the joint command centre, which was expected to be established in Gabès. Tunisian authorities oppose the presence of any foreign organisations inside the country, and were wary of NATO’s interference in the choice of base location. US drone strikes cause embarrassment The command centre incident suggests Tunisia closely guards its sovereignty, and is particularly sensitive on issues such as security, border controls or counter-terrorism. But the authorities have often collaborated with foreign partners in recent years. In late 2016 Tunisia worked with the United States as the Government of National Accord in Libya launched Operation Solid Structure (Bunyan Marsous) . During efforts to oust ISIS from Sirte, the US gave air support to a coalition of militias from Misrata that formed the backbone of the operation. In October 2016, during the fiercest phase of the fighting, the Washington Post revealed that the US was conducting surveillance drone operations inside Libya from an airbase in Tunisia. The episode highlights Tunisia’s ambivalent attitude towards Western partners. US government officials confirmed the reports, saying Reaper drones were flown by US personnel with the consent of the Tunisian government, from an existing base run by the Tunisian army. However, the news deeply embarrassed authorities in Tunis: defence officials initially denied allowing the US to operate such drone flights from Tunisian airbases, only to be contradicted a month later by Essebsi, who confirmed that US drones were flying missions at the border with Libya, according to an agreement with Washington to share intelligence. The proclaimed (but often neglected) principle of Arab solidarity can help explain Tunisia’s ambiguity towards the 2016 US military operations, as well as the country’s reluctant partnership with NATO. The Tunisian government may find it uncomfortable to tell its people that their military bases are used by Western governments for operations in neighbouring countries, or that foreign militaries are present on their soil. This concern is evident in controversy surrounding a proposed intelligence fusion centre in Tunisia, announced by NATO in 2016. The centre would have involved military and civilian agencies sharing intelligence across different disciplines and focusing on the phenomenon of Tunisian foreign fighters. Its main purpose was supporting Tunisian Special Forces in counter-terrorism activities, deepening the cooperation between NATO and Tunis. However, Tunisian authorities denied such a centre would be created. The Ministry of Defence said the country already had an intelligence fusion centre financed by Tunisian institutions and managed by its own officials. Even though the press reported progress on this issue last year, saying that the project was near completion, no breakthrough has yet occurred. Cooperation with Algeria External factors also explain Tunisia’s reluctance to become deeply involved with NATO. Given the instability affecting North Africa since the Arab Spring, security cooperation with neighbouring countries has been unavoidable for the Tunisian government. Tunisia has strengthened its relations with Algeria, responding to the terrorist threat along the countries’ shared border. In 2014 the neighbours struck a deal to secure the border and share intelligence, and a security cooperation agreement was signed in March 2017. Algeria traditionally opposes any Western military presence in the region and has always been wary of the establishment of military bases in neighbouring countries. This stance, which clearly stems from the non-interventionist policy adopted by Algerian authorities since the nation’s independence, could have played a role in Tunisia’s recent decisions to decline NATO offers. Tunis is increasingly reliant on Algeria’s counter-terrorism expertise, gained during the ‘black decade’ of the 1990s. The arrival of NATO bases or officials in Tunisia could have upset Tunisia’s western neighbour, possibly harming crucial security cooperation. A greater role for France Another reason for Tunisia’s decisions may be found in France’s shifting approach to North Africa. Since his election in May 2017, French President Emmanuel Macron and his foreign minister Jean-Yves Le Drian have been promoting a new course in North Africa, making frequent visits and arranging meetings with the clear aim of allowing France to assume a central role in the region. In a visit to Tunis on 1 February Macron criticised NATO’s 2011 intervention in Libya, saying attempts to solve a crisis through unilateral military action were an obvious mistake. It is interesting to note that Macron’s remark anticipated Zbidi’s announcement on the NATO joint command centre. It is extremely unlikely that the visit of the French president affected Tunisia’s most recent decision. But the rejection of NATO’s grant offer seems to ease Paris’s quest for leadership in North Africa, allowing the French administration to take advantage of favourable circumstances, including visible US disinterest in the region.

The IISS Voices blog features timely comment and analysis on international affairs and security from IISS experts and guest writers.