(Red Oak) -- The three democratic candidates running for Iowa's third district congressional seat will appear at a candidates forum in Red Oak this weekend. The Montgomery County Democrats will host the forum from 1-3 p.m. Saturday at the Montgomery County History Center, located at 2700 North Fourth Street in Red Oak. The three congressional candidates are Cindy Axne, Pete D'Alessandro, and Eddie Mauro. Axne is a fifth-generation Iowan, small business owner, a mother, and community activist. Speaking at an October candidates forum in Clarinda, Axne said one of the biggest issues for Iowa - and the country - is infrastructure.

“We need to build a baseline for our economic growth,” Axne said. “That means a solid infrastructure. That’s why I’m going to fight for more funding to make sure that we repair and build our roads and bridges, our water and sewer systems, and absolutely make sure that every Iowan has access to solid broadband and cellular. Everyone needs be able to compete in today’s new economy.” D’Alessandro is known for running the 2016 Iowa presidential campaign for U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders. The Chicago native says he endorses a progressive plan to get the country back on the right track, which includes increasing broadband opportunities for rural communities. “Only about half the people in rural America have Internet that is considered adequate,” D’Alessandro said. “I would support legislation like House Resolution 800, which would amend the Rural Electrification Act of 1936. Not only would it set up a distinct office within the Department of Ag, it would allow authorization of federal money and development of access in underserved areas. It is a new deal approach to a new deal type problem.”

Mauro owns an insurance company and has coached sports in the Des Moines metro. One of his main focuses in the campaign is protecting the tools in the farm bill and crop insurance program that position Iowa farmers for success. "We win this seat when we talk about fields of opportunities for our current and new farmers," Mauro said. "We win this seat when we talk about a crop insurance program, and a farm bill, that provides the tools and resources that all of our famers need – regardless of their size, practice, and their formation.” Also taking part in Saturday's forum is Iowa House challengers Chuck Larson (District 23) and James Uhlenkamp (District 24). The candidates will answer several rounds of questions administered by the Montgomery County Democrats, and will also entertain questions from the audience.