Ian Holloway believes Queens Park Rangers have finally found consistency heading into this weekend’s game against The Rs find themselves sitting pretty in midtable, safe from relegation but out of the promotion picture after a somewhat patchy season. However, with very little on the line, they seem to have found a winning formula that has seen them pick up three wins over the last five games, a run they will be looking to extend this weekend at the KCOM Stadium. Holloway has altered his formation, favouring four at the back rather than five and it seems to have galvanised his side, convincingly beating Sunderland and Aston Villa before holding Fulham to a draw at Craven Cottage. A 1-0 defeat to Reading could have seen their season hit the buffers on Good Friday, but instead they responded in fabulous fashion to sweep Norwich City aside 4-1 on Easter Monday, ensuring they will arrive in East Yorkshire riding a wave of confidence. Read More As such, Holloway believes QPR can continue their recent good form this weekend and carry on building. “We have moved away from the five and gone to a back four which gives me the opportunity to put another forward in and I feel the lads are ready for that now,” Holloway told the club website. “People might say why didn't I do that earlier on? Well I didn’t have everybody ready then! We had injuries and the young lads, who are improving game by game, still needed some time. But they have become more and more confident because we have moved other people on and started to back them. Read More “We continue to develop our identity and I think we are beginning to see the consistency in the work-rate, the consistency in the pressing and consistency in our choices. We are getting more of our own identity. “It’s all about getting the right feel. I was so pleased with the fourth goal against Norwich the other day because at 3-1 if you let one in you can go back into the shell and lose a bit of confidence, but after the fourth, we played with belief and moved the ball in the way that I wanted them to. “The spirit is really good and I am really pleased with them at the moment.”

Like us on Facebook; Follow us on Twitter; Daily Newsletter.